

The Mythbusters' Cave Story Special


Jamie and Adam introduce the premise as a mythbusters special

grant, tory and kari show up and everyone talks about what they're going to do:

Adam and Jamie will test to see if the Red Crystal has enough power to take over the Core.
The Build team will test to see if Quote can make it through a robot army in order to get the crown.

They all split off and each story is followed individually:

We start with the build team. They need to create a quote stand-in in order to test with (described as being identical in all ways to the original, but is not the original, so it is OK to destroy).
Buster-bots and other Grant Imihara creations will stand in for enenmy robots, with Big Buster standing in for the
crown bearer at the end of the journey.

After the build-team challenge is complete, we cut to adam and jamie creating a large heap of ballistics gel as a stand-in for the core.
Jamie casually produces the red crystal, stating that with a little "movie magic", it wasn't hard to procure, but details
regarding how this was done can't be shared because the crystal is "kind of dangerous".

Quote is still around, adam remarks how nice it is to have a helper around M5. Quote is told to break the gel mold.
Jamie then uses a crane to lower the red crystal onto the gel (from behind bulletproof glass).

The gel comes to life, roars, and jumps vertically offscreen. Lights go out in M5, everything is dim now.

Various mythbusters memorabilia becomes posessed by the crystal power and attackes the mythcrew.
They implore quote to help. You fight through M5 to reach the gel boss. You must kill the gel.

At the end, the crew says that the posession myth is confirmed. Also, since quote was able to battle his way *to* the gel, any myth
of Quote being too weak for the challenge is also *totally and completely busted*.

Death screens will consist of large red words, "Busted"

Title screen is a still of quote and the myth crew sketched out



intro dialouge:


Jamie: Hello, Adam.

Adam: 'Sup, Jamie.

Jamie: The studio is looking a little pixelated, and now that I mention it,
that's not your usual hat.
What'cha got planned?

Adam: I'm glad you mentioned it Jamie because it's time
for another Mythbusters special!

Jamie: A special, huh? I feel like we just did one of those.
What's in the works this time?

Adam: Take a guess!

Jamie: Something that relates to your hat and this room...
I'm going to say we'll be testing out a video game.

Adam: Correct! But not just any videogame, today, we're going to
be doing Cave Story Myths.

Jamie: Oh, Cave Story? I heard of that game. It was one
of the first successful indie games, initially released in 2004.
That was just one year after we got our start.

Adam: Oh, wow has it been that long? Time sure flies!
Regardless, I'm super excited about this one. We've got several big things planned for
the episode.

Jamie: Well, hold your horses there, Adam. A lot of these myths revolve around the
game's main character, Quote, who happens to be a pale robotic android. Where are we
going to get one of those?

Adam: I'm glad you asked that, because to answer your question,
we need to check on the build team. I hear Grant's been
working on a suprise.

Cutscene to build team:

Jamie: Hey guys, how's it going?
Adam said that I should take a look at what you're working on.

Tory: Oh, you're just in time. We're just about to try it out.

Grant: Ok. Counting down in 3.. 2..

Kari: Hold on, wait just a second. He's not ready just yet.
He still needs his hat.

Adam: Oh, right. Sorry, I stole it for the bit.

Kari takes hat from Adam

Kari: There we go. Now we're ready.

Grant: Cool. Activating in 3.. 2.. 1.. He's Alive!

Quote stands up on the table

Jamie: Wow. You made the protagonist? How did I not hear about this?

Tory: Well, when we heard that we were doing this special, Kari and I reached out to Quote's
original creator. He was all too happy to help us out, and gave us the plans to build our own.

Grant: So what you're looking at here is a 1:1 recreation of Cave Story's heroic robot, down to the last detail.

Jamie: That should give us some pretty emperical tests then. If our robot can do it, the original definitely can.

Adam: To finish that thought out though, what exactly do you have planned for, um, well... he doesn't have a name yet.

Tory: Sure he does. He's Quote.

Adam: The original is Quote. This guy is someone new. He needs his own brand.

Grant: Hmm... Now that you say it, before you learn his name, Quote is called Mr. Traveller. How about we call him Mr. Mythbuster.

Jamie: Mr. Mythbuster... Doesn't exactly roll off the tounge, but I like where it's going. How 'bout Mythie?

Tory: ooo. I like that. Mythie.

Grant: That works for me. Mythie it is.

Adam: Ok, with that settled, what do you all have panned for Mythie?

Kari: We're testing the myth that Quote could have made it to the original crown-bearer without any extra help.
Now as we all know, he did have help in the form of his sidekick, Curly, and together, they were able to take the warlord out, but.

Tory: But there are dissenters out there that say the job could have been completed with only one robot, and that having two was overkill, so we're going to put that to the test!

Grant: I've enhanced Buster and some of his friends, turning them into a robot army simmilar to the one encountered by Quote and Curly on the island, except this time, it will just be Mythie without any help.

Jamie: I hope you're not planning on doing that in my shop. It sounds like it could get messy.

Kari: Oh, don't worry, we have a place in mind.

Cut to Hangar

Tory: Welcome to the Hangar!
This is the perfect place to do our obstacle testing.
There's plenty of levels and space to add course elements, which we took full advantage of.

Grant: Mythie will start out down here, next to us. His goal is to make it to the end of the course...

Kari: ...marked by this flag.
Now, the whole time, he will have to deal with Buster, or should we say,
many, many, busters.
Their goal is to stop Mythie at all costs, akin to how Quote would have to make it
through the entire floating island while a robot army opposed his movement.

Grant: And for those of you out there who are afraid Mythie will get broken...
It's OK. We have all the parts we need to repair him, so no harm, no foul.

Tory: Alright, you guys ready? Let's fight a robot army!

Fade out/reset map

Grant: Ok, everything's in position, this is...
Mythie vs Buster's army in
3... 2... 1... GO!

[First course happens here]

Upon hitting ending marker:

Kari: Wow, he did really good. That means it's not looking so hot for this myth.

Grant: Hold on, not so fast. Mythie still needs to defeat Buster.

Kari: But I thought he did... more than 20 times. I mean, just look at all that carnage!

Grant: Those weren't Buster, those were his friends.
*buster breaks in*
Grant: That's the REAL Buster, and let me tell you, he earned his name!

[bossfight]

Kari: Whoo!

Grant: Wow! He totally demolished Buster!

Tory: Yeah, he busted him up pretty good. Heh.

...
I mean, Buster was as strong as we could make him without any
supernatural suppliments, like a demon crown.

I'd have to call that plausable.
Especially with the way that Mythie handled our course, there
is definitely a chance original Quote could have soloed his expedition.

Plausable.
Plausable it is.

Now let's get out of here.

[back to M5]

Adam: Hey, guys, how was the test?

Tori: Mythie demolished it.

Adam: Really? Even all those buster-bots Grant made?

Grant: He made it through alright.

Tori: We've decided to bring him back here.
We figured maybe he could help you with your
myth.
Speaking of, what *is* your myth?


Jamie: We're testing if the Doctor's red crystal really had enough power to
posess the Core.

Kary: Wait, you're talking about that giant floating animal that you
have to fight not once, but two times in the game?

Jamie: Well, yes, but the second time, it's technically dead, re-incarnated by the
same type of crystal we're testing with here.
[jamie pulls out crystal]

Tori: Whoah, Cool! Where'd you get that?

Jamie: I was able to make it. I can't exactly disclose how for pretty obvious reasons;
the crystal is kind of dangerous,
but it was pretty easy with a little bit of machining and M5 magic.

Adam: And while Jamie was working on that, I made this!

Grant: A big wood box?

Adam: Not just any wood box... this one is special
in that it contains our test subject.
As we all know, Cores are an endangered species, so we can't just go testing on one willy-nilly,
so I made a stand-in out of Ballistics Gel and accurate metrics I found online.





Jamie: You know, I kind of hope we don't have to get
rid of him after this special. Mythie is pretty helpful
to have around the shop.


















